Sweden has submitted a new national strategy developed in cooperation with
EIT InnoEnergy
on batteries to the Swedish Government.
It shows how Sweden can take a leading position in the development of the sustainable battery value chain. The battery regulations proposed by the
European Commission
on 10 December highlights the need of minimising both the social and the carbon footprint of the battery industry. The national strategy is supported by companies across the value chain as well as universities and environmental organisations.
National strategy for the Swedish battery industry
Last week a proposal of the
new battery regulation
was adopted by the European Commission. The proposal is ambitious – it aims at minimising both the carbon footprint and the social footprint of the batteries. This is accelerated by the European Battery Alliance, launched by EU Commissioner Maroš Šefčovic in 2017, with the aim of building a sustainable battery value chain in Europe. The
Swedish strategy for a sustainable battery value chain
shows how actions in Sweden will contribute to the European battery industry development.
The development of sustainable battery production is not only important for achieving climate goals, but also enables the emergence of a competitive industry that creates growth and jobs throughout the battery value chain.
The big demand for electrification in the transport sector and industry processes have made battery manufacturing a bottle-neck. Sustainably produced batteries can become the next big Swedish industry expansion.
Svante Axelsson, National Coordinator for Fossil Free Sweden
Ideally placed to take a leading position
In Bloomberg NEF´s ‘Global Lithium-Ion Battery Supply Chain Ranking’ Sweden is projected to climb from number 10 to number 4 by 2025, only lagging behind China, Japan and the U.S.
Sweden has a strong position, with access to raw materials, cheap and fossil-free electricity, expertise and policy instruments that promote continued electrification with high environmental requirements. In addition, Sweden has strong actors along the entire value chain, from recycling and mining to the manufacture of active materials, complete battery cells and battery packs, to applications in the automotive industry as well as in the power system.
Supported by key actors across the value chain
The national strategy for a sustainable battery value chain is developed by the government initiative Fossil Free Sweden in cooperation with EIT InnoEnergy who also developed the foundation of the European Battery Strategy for the European Commission.
The strategy is supported by actors from the entire value chain from the Swedish mining industry to the battery-cell producer Northvolt, vehicle manufacturers like Volvo Cars, Volvo Group and Scania and electricity distributor Vattenfall as well as universities and environmental organisations.
Sweden is already today an integral part of the European battery ecosystem, but there is room for development in many parts of the value chain and here the strategy can be an important tool. We are impressed by the commitment of everyone involved and look forward how the example of this strategy work can be used as a role model for other European countries to follow.
Kenneth Johansson, CEO EIT InnoEnergy Scandinavia
Five areas in focus
The strategy makes a list of demands for national policy within five areas:
Sustainable batteries for a fossil-free energy and transport system: Stimulate demand for and use of sustainable batteries
Sustainable battery production, a new industry for Sweden: Create conditions for the development of a sustainable battery value chain in Sweden
Recovery and extraction of materials for a sustainable and circular battery industry: Create conditions to enable the mining industry and the recycling industry to contribute sustainably produced raw materials
Skills development for a charged future: Invest in research, innovation and education for skills development
Collaboration and dialogue for growth and export: Implement and follow up the action proposals through broad collaboration throughout the battery value chain
Visit EIT InnoEnergy website to learn more about sustainable energy innovations