A new period is beginning for Europe's Cultural and Creative Sectors and Industries (CCSI).
EIT Culture & Creativity
is set to play a key role in transforming these sectors over the next seven years as it works in partnership with the European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) until 2030.
This latest EIT Knowledge and Innovation Community (KIC) is designed to reimagine how the sector competes and thrives, driving sustainable growth across 15 industries, including education, research, business, cultural institutions, cities, and regions.
By 2030, it will unlock funding from both public and private sources, supporting transformative education, innovation, business creation and social transformation programmes. The aim is clear: to establish culture and creativity as essential drivers of Europe's economic, environmental and social progress.
Building long-term partnerships
This partnership moves beyond the limitations of traditional short-term project funding. EIT Culture & Creativity will launch continent-wide calls for proposals, inviting universities, companies, research organisations, cities, and cultural institutions to develop sustainable, long-term solutions. Whether these involve new products, start-ups, or education programmes, the focus is on ideas capable of delivering lasting impact.
The latest Knowledge and Innovation Community, EIT Culture & Creativity provides and opportunity to welcome more creatives to Europe's largest innovation ecosystem. This milestone marks the basis for Europe's cultural and creative sectors and industries to develop their innovation skills, grow their best ideas, and develop new game-changing start-ups. We look forward to seeing the EIT Culture & Creativity grow and generate impact in the years to come
Martin Kern, Director of the EIT, emphasised the importance of this milestone
Focus on five key areas
The partnership will focus on five key sectors, each with the potential to reshape Europe sustainably:
Architecture: Supporting architects adopting circular and ethical practices.
Audio-visual media: Developing products and services powered by responsible, trustworthy technologies.
Cultural heritage: Strengthening social cohesion through deeper engagement with Europe's cultural institutions and practices.
Fashion: Promoting sustainable design practices to counter fast fashion.
Gaming: Assisting SMEs in integrating AI, no-code tools, and ethical digital practices.
With a turnover of EUR 643 billion (2019), the Cultural & Creative Sectors and Industries rank amongst the top five sectors in Europe, alongside automotive and agriculture. With EIT Culture & Creativity, this economic powerhouse can now unlock its innovation potential for Europe – to deal with fast fashion, for example, or to preserve heritage or reduce the carbon footprint of architecture
Anette Schaefer and Bernd Fesel, co-CEOs of EIT Culture & Creativity, highlighted the sector's significant potential
Reinforcing regional strengths with European impact
Six regional hubs in Amsterdam, Barcelona, Bologna, Helsinki, Košice, and Vienna will drive collaboration at both local and European levels. These hubs will connect efforts in education, research, and business, supporting innovators with advanced technology, funding, and emerging talent. The aim is to turn regional strengths into entrepreneurial success stories that will benefit all of Europe.
Rising to Europe's challenges
EIT Culture & Creativity is strategically positioned to address some of the most pressing challenges of our time, including climate change, digital transformation, and public health crises. Its approach to innovation and entrepreneurship will enable cultural sectors to adapt while promoting diversity and inclusion.
Culture is an instrument of peace and discovering our shared heritage builds bridges in our diverse communities. By helping creative industries to grow, EIT Culture & Creativity will demonstrate that culture can also be an avenue to prosperity. In funding this widespread but, until now, unconnected community, the EU has created the largest initiative of this kind anywhere in the world, enabling our cultural and creative entrepreneurs to play a crucial part in shaping society
Niccolo Caderni, Chair of the Supervisory Board, highlighted the power of culture in meeting these challenges
Find more information here
