The partnership will bring raw materials in schools in Bulgaria and Romania
A new innovative partnership between
JA Europe
and
EIT RawMaterials
has been launched to equip 1200 young people, aged 15-18, from Bulgaria and Romania, with entrepreneurship and STEM skills, and spark their interest in the raw materials sector.
The initiative combines STEM and entrepreneurship education through a range of activities, including mentorship by business professionals, who will help students turn innovative ideas into real opportunities in this sector.
Image
In spring 2018, four national Innovation camps took place across the two countries, where students had to come up with solutions to meet challenges related to recycling and circular economy, in the raw materials field. In the academic year 2018-2019, students will participate in a one-year entrepreneurship education programme, the
JA Company Programme
, and obtain the
Entrepreneurial Skills Pass
, to certify this entrepreneurial experience.
Dr Rima Dapous, Director of Education at EIT RawMaterials said:
'Industry is a high political priority of the European Commission. As part of this plan, the
Skills Agenda
has been extended to new key industry sectors, such as construction, steel, paper, green technologies and renewable energies, manufacturing and maritime shipping. This initiative is part of the EU’s broader agenda to boost competitiveness and innovation capacity alongside economic growth and job creation.
JA Europe shares the mission and vision of EIT RawMaterials to develop raw materials into a major strength for Europe,
by enabling sustainable competitiveness of the European minerals, metals and materials sector along the value chain, by driving innovation, education and entrepreneurship.'
Linked in
Find us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe to our YouTube Channel
Follow us on Google+
Follow the EIT on Instagram
Experts indicate that almost all of the thirty fastest-growing occupations in the next decade will require at least some background in STEM, and this collaboration intends to raise awareness about the importance of entrepreneurship and STEM education among local and European policymakers.
'Tremendous opportunities lie in the space between STEM and entrepreneurship. JA Europe programmes are recognised as a European good practice to support young people with ideas and to create jobs. By fostering innovation in education and guiding thousands of students towards careers in raw materials , JA Europe and EIT RawMaterials will contribute to create more jobs and spur innovation in the sector.',
added
Caroline Jenner, CEO at JA Europe.