The EIT Community maintains a steadfast commitment towards Ukraine. Our latest initiative, the Red Kalyna elevates Ukrainian women innovators and their contributions towards their local communities.
30 Ukrainian women were nominated for the EIT Community's Red Kalyna Initiative, aiming to illuminate the contributions of female innovators in Ukraine. Nine remarkable individuals were shortlisted as finalists. Their expertise spans various sectors, including health, manufacturing, energy, food, and climate. The initiative boasts robust partnerships with revered institutions, such as
Emerging Europe
, the
Ukrainian Start-up Fund
,
EUIPO
, the
Women’s Business Chamber of Ukraine
, the
National Research Foundation of Ukraine
,
Dare Innovations
,
Scientist Support Office of Ukraine
,
EIT Girls Go Circular
and
EIT Alumni
,
EIT
and the whole EIT Community in general.
Meet the finalists of this year’s EIT Red Kalyna Initiative, celebrating the resilience and impact of female innovation amidst ongoing global turbulence and uncertainty.
Image
Oleksandra Bulanova
- Co-founder and COO of Light Mirror
Yevheniia Tiurina
- co-founder and CEO of Choice31, she is also a new business manager at Netpeak, an internet marketing agency.
Iryna Savytska
- co-founder and CEO of Bank of Memories
Oleksandra Samokhina
- CEO and co-founder of Tehnotable and AR.Platform
Iryna Volnytska
- the president of SET University in Ukraine. She is also a partner of Roosh Ventures.
Inna Malyukova
- the director of the Ukrainian Institute for Information Technologies in Education She is also a professor at the National Technical University of Ukraine “Igor Sikorsky Kyiv Polytechnic Institute” (NTUU KPI).
Tetiana Antofiichuk
- MD, PhD Assistant Professor at the Department of Internal Medicine, Clinical Pharmacology and Occupational Diseases, member of the Grant Policy Department at Bukovinian State Medical University; COO «BURNEASE»
Nataliia Lopina
- Founder and CEO of "ClinCaseQuest”
Anna Lissova
- Co-founder and CMHO of pleso.therapy.
Her Ideas, our Future: Women in Innovation
Under the Red Kalyna initiative, an illuminating online panel discussion dubbed “Her Ideas, Our Future” engaged participants including applicants, nominators, and various stakeholders from the EIT Community. This discussion offered compelling insights into the role of women innovators in society, sparking conversations about potential future advancements in this arena. Partnering with EIT Red Kalyna,
Emerging Europe
compiled the key insights from this enlightening discussion,
a comprehensive overview of its pivotal takeaways
.
The EIT Jumpstarter Grand Final
The EIT Jumpstarter Grand Final convened on 30 November in Athens, bringing together both in-person and online participants to meet the nine inspiring Ukrainian innovators selected for this year’s Red Kalyna. Additionally, the initiative’s partners announced valuable prizes for the finalists:
One female leader will receive a two-year free membership in the Emerging Europe
Global Visibility Programme
worth EUR 5 000
All finalists will receive a one-year free membership in the Women’s Business Chamber of Ukraine
DareInnovation will provide a deep tech Access2Funding workshop worth EUR 5 000 for all finalists
All finalists will receive free training on intellectual property rights from the EUIPO
Watch the celebration