Green Spot Technologies is tackling food waste at its root by transforming side streams from food production that would otherwise be discarded. These substances are upcycled into fermented ingredients for healthy food products
–
reshaping how we value and use our food.
Nina Granucci always knew food would be her future. As a child growing up in Brazil, she grew and sold vegetables to her sisters. As a PhD student in biotechnology, she became captivated by fermentation: nature’s original upcycler, given all the tasty foods it contributes to. But it was the shocking scale of global food waste that sparked a mission. Nina set out to transform nutrient-rich by-products like apple pulp and grape skins, apple pomace (from breweries, wineries, beverage companies, etc) into high-value, gut friendly food ingredients.
Today,
Green Spot Technologies
operates out of France – a nation with a proud tradition of fermentation thanks to its world-famous cheese and wine – and is turning waste into opportunity, one powder at a time. Their pioneering process is efficient, circular and rooted in science, but the goal is simple: to make the most of what we already have.
Award-winning fermentation platform
Green Spot Technologies has built a fermentation platform that transforms food side streams into high-value nutrient-rich ingredients, tackling waste at an industrial scale. In just three years, they've already saved approximately 39,000 tonnes of food waste from landfill, achieved an impressive social return on investment of €1.75 for every €1 invested, and are on track to reduce 730,000 tons of CO2 emissions by 2030.
The circular ingredients are already being used as cocoa alternatives, in bread, flours and sauce texturisers, driving change across the food sector. Green Spot Technologies epitomises sustainability, with an impact diligence score of 6.93 (out of 10), indicating strong alignment between its stated priorities and implemented practices. Among their many accolades, they are the winners of the Kraft Heinz Co. Innovation Challenge, Tetra Pak selection day and the Affordable Nutrition Scale-Up Challenge organised by EIT Food and Blendhub. In 2024, they were a finalist for the Earthshot Prize, proving that their vision for a waste-free future has both commercial momentum and global relevance.
Going against the grain
As a member of the
EIT Food Accelerator Network (FAN)
and
RisingFoodStars
entrepreneurship programmes, Green Spot Technologies benefited early from the EIT Food ecosystem of mentors, corporate partners and investors, laying the groundwork for solid commercial traction.
EIT Food’s
€500,000 equity investment in 2024
produced vital funds to scale up, expand demo plant capacity to 600 tonnes per year, and prepare for Series A funding. Beyond funding, EIT Food’s support helped sharpen Green Spot Technologies’ market strategy, strengthen cross-sector collaborations, and open doors to new opportunities such as the
Affordable Nutrition Scaleup Challenge
. This strategic backing has not only amplified their visibility in Europe's agrifood ecosystem but also positioned them as an authoritative voice in global circular bioeconomy conversations.
The support from EIT Food contributes not only to partially financing the commercialisation actions of Green Spot, such as consultant work and prototyping, but also gives us access to an extensive and qualified network of corporates, investors and fellow startups
Ninna Granucci, CEO and Co-founder of Green Spot Technologies
Discover more