Calling2Scale Gunma is an initiative of the European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT), a body of the European Union (EU), launched in partnership with the Governor of Gunma's office to fast-track the market entry of European startups in Japan.
The programme is designed to provide selected ventures with direct access to Japanese corporates, funding opportunities and real-world pilot projects.
Through this partnership, we are unlocking new opportunities for breakthrough technologies and long-term impact. By bridging our ecosystems, we’re strengthening innovation and expanding market access
Dr Marton Herczeg, Head of Innovation Ecosystem Unit at the EIT
Japan offers strong growth opportunities for EU scaleups. Calling2Scale Gunma gives them the platform, the tools and the partners they need to grow their business internationally, attract foreign investment and achieve long-term success. By doing this, the programme contributes directly to boosting Europe's competitiveness
Adi Barel, Managing Director of EIT Global Outreach
Running throughout 2025, the programme will be led by the
EIT’s Global Outreach initiative
. It combines hands-on market training with high-level ecosystem engagement to help startups turn international opportunities into real business results. EIT Global Outreach also operates similar startup support initiatives in leading global markets such as Silicon Valley, Brazil, Israel, the UK, and Canada.
The programme will kick off with an open innovation workshop in Gunma, Japan, delivered to 10 Japanese corporates in June. Based on European best practices, the workshop will focus on helping corporates define specific innovation challenges for which they are seeking European solutions. These challenges will form the basis of an open call to be launched in July–August to scout EU startups with relevant technologies. Selected ventures will receive two months of online training to prepare for market entry, followed by an immersion lab visit to Gunma. During the visit, startups will engage in proof-of-concept discussions with Japanese corporates, aiming to secure pilot projects and long-term business opportunities in Japan.