The European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) has been recognised as the leading public investor in Northern Europe’s fastest-growing companies, underlining its exceptional role in supporting the region’s most promising startups.
The Financial Times-backed Sifted has launched the Sifted 100: Nordics & Benelux 2025 leaderboard, spotlighting the region’s 100 fastest-growing startups, ranked by revenue growth over the past three years.
Among the 631 investors backing this year’s cohort, the EIT stands out as the top public investor, with stakes in 11 of the 100 companies – up from 8 in 2024. On average, these EIT-backed ventures achieved a remarkable 225% compound annual growth rate.
This is the second year in a row that the EIT has retained this leading position in Sifted’s leaderboard.
EIT-Backed Startups Shaping the Future
Earthbanc
(#4), supported by the EIT Climate-KIC Nordic Accelerator, is a green digital investment platform that incentivises systemic action on climate change by developing and deploying high-quality carbon offsets for financial and corporate markets.
Atlant 3D
(#11), which took part in the EIC and EIT Digital Venture Acceleration Programme, develops atomic-layer manufacturing and printing technologies for advanced materials and electronics, enabling novel fabrication tools for both space and earth applications.
Grale
(#13) produces bio-based, eco-friendly alternatives to conventional plastics, offering sustainable biomaterials that reduce reliance on petroleum-based plastics.
Greenely
(#19) has developed an app that gamifies energy use, helping households visualise consumption and cut usage. The startup took part in the KIC InnoEnergy Highway acceleration programme.
Klimate
(#18), based in Denmark, has created a platform that improves the quality and verification of carbon removal projects, enabling more effective sustainability investments. The company uses automation and data verification to optimise carbon offsetting for large enterprises.
Other EIT-backed companies in the Sifted 100 are
Blykalla
(#26),
EnginZyme
(#27),
Flow Neuroscience
(#31) and
Dexter Energy
(#61).
EIT’s Impact: Supporting Thousands of Ventures and Driving Sustainable Growth
This recognition highlights the EIT’s outstanding contribution to fostering innovation across Europe. As Europe’s largest innovation ecosystem, the EIT has directly supported over 9 900 ventures, brought more than 2 400 new products to market and trained over 1.3 Million learners in critical skills. Its network of over 70 innovation hubs ensures an on-the-ground presence in every EU member state, making innovation accessible and impactful for all.
Explore how the EIT can support your innovation journey—visit our
opportunities page
to learn more.
Read the Sifted article