The European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) Community is expanding its reach in Bulgaria with the launch of a new national hub to support local innovation and connect stakeholders to Europe’s wider innovation ecosystem.
The EIT Community Hub Bulgaria was officially launched today during the Green Transition Forum 2025, held at the Sofia Event Centre. This milestone marks an important step in strengthening Bulgaria’s position in the European innovation landscape.
The launch event welcomed a diverse group of stakeholders, including representatives from the European Commission, international experts from the EIT network, Bulgarian universities, research organisations, entrepreneurs and innovative companies. Martin Kern, EIT Director, gave a welcoming speech online at the event.
This Hub, led by our colleagues Ms. Irina Ilieva and Ms. Mariyana Hamanova, is a one-stop-shop for anyone in Bulgaria looking to engage with the EIT...The hub isn’t just a helpdesk – it’s a dedicated local gateway to the EIT’s full pan-European offer...Let us work together to ensure that Bulgaria doesn’t just participate in Europe’s innovation future – but helps lead it
Stefan Dobrev, Chair of EIT Governing Board
What is the EIT Community Hub Bulgaria?
The EIT Community Hub Bulgaria was established to support the development of the national innovation ecosystem and to connect Bulgarian organisations with the institute’s Europe-wide network.
Located in Sofia, within the offices of Cleantech Bulgaria and JA Bulgaria, the hub offers a collaborative space for knowledge exchange, innovation support and development opportunities. It provides direct access to funding, mentorship, training and innovation programmes.
Meet the Team Behind the Hub
The hub is managed by two respected organisations with extensive experience in sustainable technology, education and entrepreneurship:
Ina Stoyanova
, Project Coordinator, Cleantech Bulgaria
Irina Ilieva
, Programme Director, JA Bulgaria
Their combined leadership ensures the hub is well placed to deliver a meaningful impact on Bulgaria’s innovation landscape.
Building on Proven Success
Over the past years, Bulgaria’s role in the EIT Community has grown substantially. Since 2021, the EIT has supported: 22 Bulgarian organisations with more than €2.5 million in funding; the creation or growth of 188 ventures; the launch of 23 new innovations; and the training of over 8,300 learners through EIT programmes. Now, with the launch of the EIT Community Hub Bulgaria, the Institute is taking its commitment one step further.
Learn more about the hub