The sixth edition of
the European Startup Prize for Mobility
(EUSP) was held during the European Commission’s
EU Industry Days
in Rzeszów, Poland
–
unveiling
Europe’s 10 most promising startups in clean mobility
.
Within the TOP 10, four startups have been supported by EIT Urban Mobility:
Futurail
: automating rail to make it smarter, faster and greener (Portfolio company)
Laka
: protecting cyclists with smart insurance (Part of the
VELOSAFE protect
)
Peregrine.ai
: transforming urban logistics (Accelerator alumni)
The Tyre Collective
: capturing and monitoring tyre wear for the reduction of microplastics (Portfolio company)
Beyond the finalists, there was also a
significant representation from EIT Urban Mobility-supported startups at the semi-final stage
. With over 500 applications reviewed by more than 100 independent evaluators, reaching this phase alone is a significant achievement. It’s a testament to the commitment and innovation of each team and recognition of the relevance and impact of the solutions they’re building.
The 10 winning startups were ultimately chosen for their high impact potential, scalability, and contribution to a greener and smarter future.
Results from the special category prizes
Beyond the TOP 10, there were
special category prizes
up for grabs within nine defined categories. Selected by partners of the EUSP, there was also a great representation from EIT Urban Mobility-supported companies:
Futurail for Rail Mobility (Portfolio company)
Nivel
for Shared Mobility & Travel Tech (
ScaleTHENGlobal
2021)
Tether
for EV Battery Care & Life Cycle (Accelerator alumni)
ex9
for Female Entrepreneurs (Rocket Up programme 2025)
The Tyre Collective took home the audience prize: a recognition of their work to reduce the amount of microplastics in the air coming from tyre wear. Recently, they also collaborated with EIT Urban Mobility,
Eurometropole de Strasbourg
and
Ringway
on a
study investigating non-exhaust emissions
, shedding light on the damaging effects of this unseen form of pollution.
Background and continued collaboration
Founded in 2017 by Karima Delli,
Boston Consulting Group
and
ViaID
, The European Startup Prize for mobility is an EU-founded acceleration and investment programme for sustainable mobility startups. This unique competition brings major EU institutions such as the European Parliament, European Commission, European Investment Bank, Europe’s Rail as well as major mobility corporations and tech giants.
Portfolio achievements
With two of Europe’s 10 most promising clean mobility startups for 2025 coming from EIT Urban Mobility’s portfolio
–
and two more having advanced through our programmes
–
this recognition marks a proud moment for both the startups and those who have supported their growth.
Want to explore the full impact of our portfolio? Click below for the complete list, including what each startup does and links to their websites and social media.
Discover more here