InnoEnergy’s Impact Report 2024 reveals that the cumulative impact of its portfolio of startups and scaleups is projected to save 2.3 Gt of CO₂-equivalent emissions by 2030.
This is comparable to removing 534 million internal combustion engine vehicles from the road for one year. It represents close to
80%
of the total greenhouse gas emissions recorded by the EU27 in 2023 and nearly
36.5%
of the total greenhouse gas emissions recorded by the U.S. in 2022.
As the world’s leading economies navigate a shifting geopolitical landscape, the report underscores the importance of scaling clean tech innovation to deliver on 2050 net-zero targets and secure long-term strategic autonomy.
Now is the moment to unite and scale clean technologies at speed. Our portfolio offers proven solutions that can create thousands of jobs, significantly strengthen industrial bases around the world, and reduce emissions. But we can only unlock this impact if global leaders join forces to co-invest, build resilient value chains, and industrialise together
Elena Bou, Co-founder and Innovation Director at InnoEnergy
In addition to the environmental impact, the report highlights strong economic results. By the end of 2024, the portfolio had generated €943 million in cumulative revenue and had raised €34 billion in cumulative investment. By 2030, it is expected to deliver €13.5 billion in energy cost savings. Further demonstrating the portfolio’s far-reaching impact, by the end of 2024, it had created over 47,000 jobs and enabled access to energy for 2.9 million people in developing countries.
The energy transition is no longer a question of when, but how fast. With 15 years of demonstrated impact and a strategic position at the heart of Europe’s clean tech ecosystem, InnoEnergy is central to uniting industrial, political, and financial players to accelerate clean tech champions. Our portfolio shows that what once came with a ‘green premium’ is now competing, and often winning, on cost and performance. These are not just cleaner technologies; they’re smarter, faster, and better ways to meet rising energy demand
Elena Bou, Co-founder and Innovation Director at InnoEnergy
Since its inception, InnoEnergy has evaluated over 9,000 startups, supporting more than 540 companies, four of which have grown into unicorns. With a portfolio survival rate of 89%, and the same percentage exporting their products globally, the data highlights strong resilience and international demand for European clean energy solutions.
Read the full report here