InnoEnergy welcomes new partners in support of the next stage of suena energy’s growth and renews its own investment.
suena energy
, one of InnoEnergy’s portfolio companies and a pioneer in the algorithmic optimisation and trading of energy storage systems and renewable energies, has successfully secured an €8 million in Series A funding. Dutch energy company Eneco led the round through its investment arm, Eneco Ventures, joined by impact venture capital fund 4impact capital, and existing investors InnoEnergy, J.O.S.S., Santander and Energie 360°.
International expansion and scaling of the business model
This investment marks a key milestone for suena energy, enabling them to strengthen their position in the rapidly growing energy storage market by focusing on international expansion and scaling up their business model. A key part of the growth strategy is the expanding market for co-locating storage systems with renewable energy assets. While these projects offer operational synergies and new revenue models, they also require robust technological, regulatory and economic integration. suena energy’s flexible software enables customers to develop storage projects quickly, efficiently and profitably, thereby supporting the creation of a resilient, decentralised and decarbonised power system.
This funding round marks a strategic milestone for us, enabling us to take our business model to the next level – with strong partners at our side who share our vision. Eneco Ventures and 4impact are highly complementary to our existing investor base. Their strategic-operational and digital technology expertise bring us closer to our goal of becoming a leading provider of intelligent flexibility trading in Europe
Lennard Wilkening, Co-Founder and CEO of suena energy
Eneco
brings its expertise in building and operating scalable, decentralised energy solutions as a leading energy company with a robust footprint in electrification and sustainable infrastructure to the table, along with a strong market presence in Germany, the Netherlands and other European countries. Eneco Ventures leverages Eneco’s extensive operational expertise and networks and partners closely with visionary entrepreneurs to scale transformative, climate-positive technologies.
4impact capital
joins the investor consortium as a software-specialised impact investor, committed to supporting suena energy’s mission to bring more flexibility to the energy system and accelerate the energy transition. Through strategic guidance, a strong climate tech network, and active support in team growth and partnership building, 4impact will help position suena energy as a leading software provider for flexible energy optimisation in Europe.
Our renewed investment in suena energy highlights our confidence in the company’s pioneering solution. With its innovative approach, suena energy makes battery storage more economically attractive and takes it to the next level within the system. It is an indispensable element for a stable, renewable power grid, and suena energy therefore offers the perfect solution for the rapidly growing battery storage market in Germany. It is currently one of the fastest-growing companies in this field.
Christian Bauer, CEO for the DACH region at InnoEnergy
AI-based optimisation for the energy transition
suena energy’s proprietary
Energy Trading Autopilot
enables fully automated, AI-driven trading of flexibilities across all relevant power and ancillary service markets. The platform uses real-time data and forecasts to generate optimal dispatch schedules, maximising revenues while minimising risk and battery degradation.
Discover more