These exciting projects will be able to use their EUR 10 000 Makerspace voucher to develop their ideas. They were recognised for their potential to contribute to the the New European Bauhaus initiative to create a beautiful, sustainable, and inclusive Europe.
The EIT Community New European Bauhaus hackathons support fresh ideas from students and local entrepreneurs and help develop these ideas in an intense and radically collaborative environment. With the EUR 10 000 voucher, teams will be able to access a Makerspace to turn their solution into concrete goods and services.
The four categories and winners from this year are:
Reconnecting with nature: URBAN TREE
URBAN TREE is a sustainable urban drainage system made of low CO2 concrete and covered in plants which can grow from the rainwater stored in them. This solution is particularly ideal for paved areas of cities as it can be placed directly on top of other pavements and does not require excavation like other drainage systems or trees. By combining the drainage system and greenery, the product aims to ease pressure on the sewage system, as well as contribute to a greener city.
Regaining a sense of belonging: Molo61
Focusing on the "Italia 61" zone in Turin, Molo61 wants to create a multi-functional and sustainable space for youth where they can study, work, or just spend time together. The project suggested co-working and co-design interventions made from sustainable materials and involving members of the community in the design process.
Circularity: PuliTO
The elodea plant has long been treated as a hazard to the river Po in Turin but can no longer be permanently eradicated from the area. Given this reality, PuliTO aims to give new life to this plant by using its extraction and research to educate citizens on the problem. It will also be able to use the aquatic plant to create products that are vital to the search for new supplementary vegetable proteins, bioplastics, and natural fertilizers.
Prioritising people and places that need it most: Orlegi
Orlegi aims to make cities greener through a gamified app where citizens can make suggestions on how to improve their neighbourhoods. Governments can access this data to then act on it. The app can give citizens suggestions for what neighborhood changes could be put in place, like bike lanes or extra greenery. Orlegi gives citizens the tools to reimagine their neighbourhoods while giving local authorities a better understanding of the area's needs.
The EIT Community New European Bauhaus initiative is an initiative supported by the
European Institute of Technology and Innovation
(EIT) and led by
EIT Climate-KIC
with
EIT Digital
,
EIT Food
,
EIT Manufacturing
and
EIT Urban Mobility
.