The European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) is pleased to announce the launch of its newest innovation hub in Ukraine. The new hub will build on the strong efforts of the EIT Community to support Ukrainian innovators. The EIT Community in 2023 alone has opened over 50 of its education, entrepreneurship and business acceleration programmes for Ukrainian citizens and channelled over EUR 4 million towards strengthening Ukraine.
The new regional hub, located in Kyiv, Ukraine, will connect regional actors, innovators, and partners to Europe’s largest innovation ecosystem and
serve as a one-stop shop for local stakeholders
to access the
EIT Knowledge and Innovation Communities (KICs). It will bridge the Ukrainian and European Union’s innovation network and boost ideas and businesses emerging from Ukraine.
The new Hub is part of the
EIT Regional Innovation Scheme (EIT RIS)
programme designed to tackle Europe’s regional innovation divide.
We more than welcome the decision to open [EIT’s] regional hub in Ukraine — this is of  crucial importance and timely support for our tech community. Innovations become more and more an essential part of our lives. But during the war, we especially feel how tech can serve our people, save lives and boost the economy. Such initiatives are strategic for both Ukraine’s victory and recovery.
Mykhailo Fedorov, Deputy Prime Minister for Innovations, Development of Education, Science & Technologies, and  Minister of Digital Transformation of Ukraine
Ukraine is home to a rich and diverse group of talented innovators and entrepreneurs.  But now, possibly more than ever before, they need our support. With our latest hub, the EIT will strengthen it’s on the ground presence and support for Ukraine, bringing more products made in Ukraine to a global stage.
Nektarios Tavernarakis, Chair of the EIT Governing Board
The launch of new EIT Community hub in Ukraine is part of the EIT’s effort to
consolidate its on-the-ground presence across the
Regional Innovation Scheme (RIS)
by establishing a network of EIT Community RIS Hubs in over 20 countries across Europe.
SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE
In the past two years, the EIT Community has opened all its 50 plus business creation and acceleration programmes for Ukrainian entrepreneurs and businesses. In addition, the EIT has organised several dedicated programmes for Ukrainians including:
A dedicated
EIT Higher Education Institutions (HEI) Initiative
call to support Ukrainian universities and their non-academic partners. Currently 41 Ukrainian partners are part of the EIT HEI Initiative.
The
EIT Jumpstarte
r
,
an early stage accelerator programme,
held a “
Pre-accelerator in Ukraine
” to help
16 Ukrainian teams turn their ideas into successful businesses. The EIT Jumpstarter also introduced a “Rebuild Ukraine” category that included a record participation of Ukrainian talents.
A series of workshops,
Founders2Founders
, were called in Kyiv, Lviv, and Ivano-Frankivsk, at which successful founders, entrepreneurs, and investors get practical recommendations for developing innovative businesses. Over 100 Ukrainian innovators have applied to be part of the programme.
Red Kalyna
,  a new EIT Community initiative, aims to recognise outstanding female entrepreneurs who have developed innovative products or solutions. Every year, a wall of fame highlighting ten role models from Ukraine will be published and promoted. They will receive the “Red Kalyna by EIT Community” label to symbolise their strength and endurance. The project is also open to external partners who wish to support female entrepreneurs from Ukraine.
Other programmes include:
Girls Go Circular
that has trained 900 Ukrainian school children,  EIT Food’s
GoToBusiness
that has helped close to 130 participants, and  several EIT accelerator programmes
Download Press Release