EIT Digital is going to supercharge European scale-ups with the EIT Digital Champions, a competition that rewards innovative companies with the vital support they need to obtain Series A and B funding.
European deep tech companies looking for investment funds to help them scale up and grow are invited to
apply
by 30 January 2024. Selected finalists will pitch their ideas before a jury of international investors. The winners, the Champions, will receive free access to 12 months of
EIT Digital Growth Services
support, a programme that will
PREPARE
you to pitch your company,
CONNECT
you with international investors, and help you
RAISE
your next round. The EIT Digital Growth Services team is highly accomplished in guiding the growth of scale-ups and is well known in the industry. They not only have a vast network of investor connections - more than 1000 all over Europe - but they also know what each investor is looking for and what they want and like to hear!
Who should apply?
We’re looking for fast-growing European deep tech start-ups with a unique and differentiated product offering that leverages  highly innovative digital technologies. These companies should have strong commercial traction and be in need for additional capital to expand into new markets.
Moreover, EIT Digital is strongly dedicated to endorsing scale-ups with women founders and women in C-level roles, and encourages applications from such ventures. Similarly, EIT Digital extends its support across all of Europe and eagerly anticipates applications from scale-ups in EIT RIS countries: Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, and Spain.
The Journey of a Champion
EIT Digital Champions builds on a legacy of success. For instance, in October of 2022, WSense
competed
in the EIT Digital Champions, pitching their amazing company and their Internet of Underwater Things (IoUT) technology. After impressing the jury, they were declared one of the Champions. Over the next twelve months, WSense worked with EIT Digital’s Growth Services team to
Prepare
,
Connect
,
& Raise
. Together they prepared a compelling message, connected with key international investors and arranged numerous investor calls. In October of 2023, just one year later,
WSense raised EUR 9M from investors in three different EU countries
!
Apply now!