InnoStars is recruiting participants for its fellowship program (StarShip) from InnoStars countries and other RIS eligible countries outside EIT Health
StarShip
is an EIT Health educational initiative in collaboration with leading European health industrial partners – lead by the University of Coimbra and IESE Business School and the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH).
Using a blend of different educational approaches including elements from Stanford Biodesign Concept, StarShip will be a unique opportunity for participants to be involved in industry-driven life science innovation, working together with innovators in and outside the companies in highly skilled multidisciplinary teams. During the one-year long programme, fellows learn a proven, action-based approach to find solution to industry challenges, verifying user requirements and identifying potentially unmet needs in the health context, in close collaboration with key industrial players and leading local EIT Health innovating institutions. In multidisciplinary teams fellows will develop responses to given challenges, validate them in the real health care settings, with the guidance of the StarShip academic team.
StarShips’ outcome will be the development of –or a crucial contribution to– market-relevant products or services in collaboration with the industrial partner. Starship will also allow these companies to get insights in the high potential of the InnoStars regions while working closely with tomorrow’s high talent workforce.
Why participate?
StarShip will provide an opportunity for participants to:
Get immerged in a concrete innovation challenges with leading companies
Become acquainted with design thinking and solution design
Learn elements of successful innovation & entrepreneurship from Europe’s leading academic institutions
Establish business connections with key healthcare companies also in view of future placement
Learn about latest cutting edge technologies from Europe’s top Universities and link with industry needs
Who can participate?
StarShip fellows will ideally:
have a high interest in the health sector, and bring in a relevant background, biomedical, also from technical, engineering, economical, business, design and similar. Master or PhD will be a plus.
be from / or connected to one of the InnoStar regions: Budapest, Coimbra, Lisbon, Lodz, Naples and Wales.
Fluent English, both written and spoken is required.
Other Considerations:
Dedication a total of 9 weeks over the year 2017: 4 fixed education modules, time in companies to be agreed upon.
Travel & accommodation for workshops, company and university visits are covered. No formal scholarship is given.
Fellows will form multidisciplinary teams to solve company-related challenges.
Interested? Contact: starship@eithealth.eu, or visit www.starship.eithealth.eu
To apply, please send your CV in English and a cover letter to starship@eithealth.eu until 4 January 2017.
Catch up with the latest news from the EIT Community in the Newsroom
.
Subscribe to the EIT Newsletter
to get the best of the EIT Community's news in your inbox once each month.
Engage with us
Find us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe to our YouTube Channel
Follow us on +Google
Linked in