The European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) has launched its newest joint hub in Portugal.
By connecting regional actors, innovators, and partners to Europe’s largest innovation ecosystem, the new EIT Community Hub will strengthen cooperation among leading business, education and research organisations, and serve as a one-stop shop for local talent and entrepreneurs. The event featured former European Commission President José Manuel Durão Barroso, who spoke during the opening session.
The EIT Community continues to support innovation in Portugal by opening its first Community Hub in the country. The aim of the hub is to strengthen cooperation among leading business, education and research organisations while increasing the region’s competitiveness and contributing to sustainable economic growth. The new hub is part of the
EIT Regional Innovation Scheme
programme designed to tackle Europe’s innovation divide.
The new hub was officially launched today at the Unicorn Factory Lisboa during Unicorn Week 2025. Unicorn Week Lisboa 2025 is a week-long celebration of innovation, entrepreneurship, and technology, bringing together startups, investors, and industry leaders at the heart of Lisbon’s thriving tech ecosystem. The hub opening featured former European Commission President José Manuel Durão Barroso,
newly-appointed EIT Governing Board member
Marcella Panucci and António Grilo,
President of the National Innovation Agenc
y.
Alexande Poço, Member of the Portuguese Parliament and Gil Azevedo, Executive Director of Unicorn Factory Lisbon, who delivered the closing remarks.
Through this Hub, Portuguese innovators will have direct access to EIT education and entrepreneurship programmes, mentoring, funding, market access and Europe-wide networks and partnerships
Marcella Panucci, EIT Governing Board Member
Our mission is to make innovation more accessible and collaborative. With this hub, we want to connect Portuguese talent, startups, and organisations with the right tools and partners to turn ideas into impactful solutions – locally and across Europe
Carolina Sampaio Dinis, EIT Community Officer for Portugal
The newly opened hub in Portugal will represent all the EIT’s Knowledge and Innovation Communities and focus on attracting and engaging an increasing number of local participants in EIT Community activities. It will provide innovators with a centralised source of information on different services and opportunities provided by the EIT Community in Portugal, all EU Member States and all Horizon Europe associated countries. Additionally, it will spearhead the engagement with local authorities, including providing policy support and expertise as required.
Since 2021, the EIT Community in Portugal has supported 407 startups, attracted over €30.76 million in investment, launched 55 innovations on the market, and engaged 29,463 participants in education programmes. A total of €13.3 million has been committed in EIT grants to Portuguese entities for the period 2023–2025, including €3.1 million specifically for Portuguese SMEs.
The launch is part of a major network to provide the EIT Community with a strengthened on-the-ground presence across Central, Eastern and Southern Europe. Similar hubs are being established in over 20 countries across Europe.