The European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) is pleased to announce the nominees for the
2025 EIT Awards
.
With this year’s announcement, the EIT and its nine Knowledge and Innovation Communities celebrate outstanding innovators from across the EIT network for their breakthrough solutions in fields ranging from health tech, the circular economy, and critical raw materials to AI-driven advances and sustainable urban mobility.
A Diverse Showcase of Talent
The 2025 EIT Award nominees highlight an impressive variety of changemakers, innovators, and successful entrepreneurs, underscoring the breadth and diversity of the EIT’s vast network across Europe and beyond. This year, nominees represent the following countries: Estonia, Finland, France, Guyana, Hungary, Indonesia, Italy, Poland, Spain, Sweden, the Netherlands, and the USA. Discover the complete list of nominees and their groundbreaking ideas
here.
Innovation doesn’t happen in isolation. It comes from students, researchers, and entrepreneurs working together, and it can flourish if there is a support system that believes in their potential and responds to their needs. The EIT Awards celebrate innovators nurtured by the EIT Community – proof that Europe’s talent, with the right support, can shape solutions for the world.
Stefan Dobrev, Chairperson of the EIT Governing Board
EIT Awards Categories
The nominees announced today will compete in the following categories:
EIT Changemaker Award
– recognising leaders within the EIT Community and beyond, whose activities and achievements generate a significant social impact.
EIT Innovation Team
Award
– celebrating diverse groups that developed a unique product, service, or process with high added value and breakthrough potential.
EIT Venture
Award
– highlighting successful start-ups within the EIT Community that address societal challenges and show strong growth potential.
EIT Public Award
– the community’s favourite finalist, chosen by public vote. Online voting for the Public Award will open ahead of the ceremony at
eitawards.eu
.
Each award comes with a monetary prize of
€50 000 (first place), €20 000 (second place), and €10 000 (third place)
.
Join the EIT Innovation Awards on 25 November in Budapest
The winners will be announced at the 2025 EIT Innovation Awards Ceremony taking place on
25 November 2025 in Budapest, Hungary.
The event will feature the EIT Awards Finalists’ Pitching and Award Ceremony, as well as engaging discussions and inspiring speeches, and networking opportunities.  In addition, attendees will be able to participate in the:
The EIT Jumpstarter Grand Finale recognising the best early-stage innovators from moderate and emerging regions.
The EIT Red Kalyna Finals: celebrating Ukrainian women entrepreneurs, educators, researchers, and mentors who drive innovation and positive change.
The three initiatives embody a vision of European innovation that leaves no region overlooked, ensures every innovator is recognised, and gives every promising idea the support it needs. By linking education, research, and business across borders, sectors, and stages of development, the EIT serves as Europe’s engine of innovation—supporting the innovation journey at every step of the way.