Learn how to use emerging technologies at one of the 16 EIT Digital Summer Schools that will take place in 13 European locations
Real business case studies
The two-week
EIT Digital Academy Summer Schools
combine state-of-the-art excellence in key digital technologies with expertise in innovation and entrepreneurship (I&E). Attendees immerse themselves in real business case studies originating from within EIT Digital's pan-European ecosystem of scale-ups, industrial and academic partners and research companies.
The Summer Schools are one of the ways in which EIT Digital is working to make Europe a leading player in the digital economy. Our Summer Schools offer our attendees the chance to master the digital mindset that companies need to acquire to be competitive.
Roberto Prieto, Director of the EIT Digital Academy
Deep dive into emerging technologies
The Summer Schools are open to researchers, industry professionals, master and PhD students and others who want to deep dive into emerging technologies and learn how to apply them in business situations. The Summer School is a mandatory part in the
EIT Digital Master School
. This means that you will work with the brightest engineering minds in Europe.
The beauty is that the talented students learn to master the language of business while at the same time business people learn to master the language of technology. They learn each other's language, which makes the EIT Digital Summer School highly successful.
Roberto Prieto, Director of the EIT Digital Academy
Each Summer School is themed around one of the five areas in which EIT Digital sees major societal and industrial challenges as well as opportunities for Europe to take a leadership position in the global digital economy. These areas are: Digital Industry, Digital Cities, Digital Wellbeing, Digital Tech, and Digital Finance.
Besides the educational journey, 16 Summer Schools also offer an opportunity to visit foreign cities as they are held in eleven locations across Europe: Lisbon, Eindhoven, Stockholm, Budapest, Rennes, Tallinn, Trento, Ljubljana, Munich, Bologna and Helsinki.
The deadline for applications is 15 May 2019.
The first school opens on 30 June and the last one finishes on 17 August.
Apply now
Read more about the EIT Digital Summer School
Regarding the programme structure
Meet the EIT Digital Summer School student: Matilda Åberg-Wennerholm
'I learnt how to move fast' - one of the takeaways from the EIT Digital Summer School
'Professionals should go back to school' -  Director of Clarke Energy Associates participated in the EIT Digital Academy Summer School