EIT Awards Winner
2016
Nerdalize
, a Climate-KIC alumni start-up announced their plans for expanding their collaboration with Eneco on Wednesday 7 December in the presence of Prime Minister Mark Rutte.
In 2016, Eneco and Nerdalize have tested the results of the eRadiator in households and the outcomes of the tests are very promising. This drives both parties to make the eRadiator available for a larger number of customers. Mark Rutte was thrilled to toast on this success.
Heat at no cost
Computer servers that perform calculations generate a lot of heat. By installing these servers in people’s homes instead of centralised large data centres, the generated heat can be used to heat these homes at no cost. The purpose of the test was to collect information on customer experience and to identify possible areas of improvement of the eRadiator.
It was the first time the design radiator with built-in server was installed in ordinary households. The servers perform complex calculations for a variety of companies and knowledge institutes, such as new medicine-related research for Leiden University Medical Centre.
Cost reduction of 30 to 55%
A study carried out in cooperation with the Leiden Institute of Advanced Computing Science shows that companies and institutions that require a lot of processing power can reduce their costs in the area of accommodation and cooling of datacentres by 30 to 55% with the concept developed by Nerdalize.
There are major environmental benefits, because the same energy is used for two different purposes: computation and heating.
Nerdalize - The future looks warm and bright!
from
Nerdalize
on
Vimeo
.
Become a Climate-KIC start-up
Join the growing movement of European entrepreneurs that are finding new ways to fight climate change and boost the economy.
EIT Climate-KIC
helps the most promising start-ups connect with the best experts, to formulate your business plan, to develop your entrepreneurial skills and fund your business through the early stages with its
Acceleration Programme
.
If your idea is less developed but all about an all-out mind shift in urban mobility, a sustainable transition in the food chain or any other way to tackle climate change: make sure to apply for our our
ClimateLaunchpad programme
and EIT Climate-KIC might help you develop your idea.
Catch up with the latest news from the EIT Community in the Newsroom
.
Subscribe to the EIT Newsletter
to get the best of the EIT Community's news in your inbox once each month.
Engage with us
Find us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe to our YouTube Channel
Follow us on +Google
Linked in