The city of Bucha, Ukraine, is finding ways to heal and rebuild.
One of the most inspiring initiatives to emerge from this process is the
Bucha Forest Classroom
, a project supported by Climate KIC as part of the
EIT Community New European Bauhaus (NEB)
.
This month, we’re highlighting projects that are transforming cities across Europe into climate-resilient, just, and regenerative places. The Bucha Forest Classroom demonstrates how enhancing natural spaces within urban environments can strengthen community resilience and support holistic wellbeing.
From tragedy to renewal
Following intense fighting, Russian forces eventually retreated, leaving Bucha to confront the formidable task of rebuilding both its physical infrastructure and its sense of community. In the aftermath, restoring the city’s education facilities emerged as a key priority.
The Bucha Forest Classroom is an extension of the larger
Bucha School project
, which began in the summer of 2022. Initially, the project began when a Lithuanian business group, owning an unused land plot in Bucha, decided to donate part of it for the construction of a new school. Drawing on their experience in developing schools across Lithuania, Poland, and Latvia, the project team partnered with Climate KIC, to create a learning space that would support the community’s recovery.
The project’s concept was further inspired by the principles of the New European Bauhaus principles which advocate for sustainable, inclusive spaces that embrace style beyond functionality.
Making space for people and nature
Situated in a public park, the Bucha Forest Classroom has been designed as a multi-functional community hub. The classroom will integrate sustainable, circular materials into its construction, such as
straw panels
and
protective window film
on the external glass to minimise bird collisions with the windows, and help to maintain the wildlife of the park.
The classroom’s natural setting is designed to encourage learning both in and around the environment. It will serve as an open, calming space where students can learn about local biodiversity and develop environmental stewardship skills. Beyond education, the classroom will also function as a place of psychological support, providing the community with a neutral, green space to disconnect from the city.
A participatory approach to design
One of the most compelling aspects of the Bucha Forest Classroom is its participatory design process. Children are actively involved in shaping the space, from conceptualising the structure to selecting materials.
Through engaging children in co-design, the initiative teaches them about regenerative architecture, while also encouraging them to become guardians of their learning environment.
Partnering with the EIT Community NEB
Collaboration with the EIT Community NEB has played an important role in shaping the project. The initiative’s focus on integrating sustainability with community-driven design aligns well with Bucha’s recovery efforts.
The workshop sessions are incredibly beneficial – they bring together public and private sectors, creating a collaborative environment where ideas flow and innovation thrives
Aivaras Karalius, CEO of
BT Invest
and a key coordinator of the project
The Bucha Forest Classroom has been supported through
Co-create NEB
, one of the programmes within the wider
EIT Community NEB
ecosystem. The Co-create NEB programme calls on local communities and municipal authorities to re-design public space, which supports community-led innovation and sustainable urban transformation.
Find out more here