The New European Bauhaus (NEB) Junction is an European knowledge platform set to accelerate sustainable transformation.
NEB Junction will be the dedicated hub for results and impact of the initiative. Its aim is to make it easier for cities, communities, and change-makers to connect, get inspired, and take action, all in line with the vision of the
New European Bauhaus
.
Since 2021, hundreds of projects have emerged under the NEB banner. Many have been directly driven by local communities and grassroots actors seeking to transform their environments. This extensive work has, in turn, generated a wealth of knowledge. NEB Junction is precisely positioned to capture, collate, and package this knowledge to support the widespread uptake of NEB solutions and facilitate a just transition across Europe.
NEB Junction will translate the NEB vision of a more inclusive, sustainable, and beautiful Europe, into practical and impactful outcomes. At the core lies a dynamic and user-centred online platform. This platform will collect, curate, and share validated NEB stakeholder insights, thereby boosting wider impact and learning.
As an open platform, it will offer practical, actionable, and inspirational content, where users can:
Explore Knowledge Gems
–
curated insights and solutions from real-world projects
Join assemblies and workshops and connect with practitioners across Europe
Access practical guidance to launch their own initiatives, through tools, reports, and policy recommendations
Connect with others
–
from artists and architects to municipalities and urban developers
Bridge impact metrics across environmental, social, health, governance, and cultural and creative aspects to support the uptake of NEB solutions
The NEB Junction is a game-changer. It empowers anyone looking to make a tangible difference in their community. It breaks down silos and provides direct access to proven solutions, ultimately fostering a more beautiful, sustainable, and inclusive Europe
Annemie Wyckmans, Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU)
Led by
NTNU
and supported by a strong European partnership including Climate KIC,
Austrian Institute of Technology (AIT)
,
Ars Electronica
,
Dowel Innovation
, I
CLEI – Local Governments for Sustainability
,
European Regions Research and Innovation Network (ERRIN)
and
The Democratic Society
, NEB Junction is built to empower anyone working for change in their community—whether they represent local government, the construction sector, artists, a civil society organisation, or are simply passionate about their neighbourhood.
Find out more here