Building on a successful partnership established in 2022, the European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) and
the European Cooperation in Science and Technology (COST)
have agreed to renew their Memorandum of Understanding (MoU).
This renewed commitment paves the way for expanded opportunities for both organisations and their beneficiaries, reinforcing future joint initiatives that will strengthen research and innovation throughout Europe.
Key Achievements of EIT and COST's Joint Cooperation
The collaboration between EIT and COST has been marked by a seamless exchange of information, including the promotion of each other's events, opportunities and funding opportunities. One of the most successful joint initiatives was the Jumpstarter webinar series this year. Nearly 100 COST participants attended the webinar that provides guidance on the application process. This has resulted in a record number of 29 applications submitted by COST beneficiaries for one of EIT`s most successful Community Initiatives, the
EIT Jumpstarter
pre-accelerator programme.
Representatives of COST have also participated in several EIT flagship events, including INNOVEIT 2024, the 10 years of anniversary of EIT Regional Scheme (EIT RIS), EIT Alumni Connect and others. EIT and COST team up to support innovators and researchers in the EU Outermost Regions through joint outreach activities.
Building on the EIT’s unique approach to innovation support, a pilot initiative has been launched to foster on-the-ground cooperation between the EIT Community Officers (ECO) and the COST National Contacts (CNC). As part of this effort, both ECOs and CNCs have been trained on each other’s programmes and opportunities to encourage joint initiatives.
The EIT took part in the COST Academy training on Gender Equality in Research and Innovation (2024) and the COST Connect event Gender Equality Plans for COST Actions (2025). Participants learned from the EIT’s expertise in promoting gender-smart innovation and got practical insights on creating strong Gender Equality Plans (GEPs).
Looking Ahead: Future Plans and Joint Initiatives
COST and EIT will now translate this experience into more concrete actions. The partnership will focus on leveraging synergies between the two funding schemes, strengthening connections among their beneficiaries, and encouraging local representatives to work together more closely.
The renewed MoU outlines an ambitious action plan for 2025-2027. Key elements of this plan will aim at connecting their beneficiaries to key stages of the innovation value chain supported by their respective funding mechanisms. EIT and COST, in collaboration with the Community Initiative for Strategic Regional Innovations, will implement joint activities within the RIS region.
The two organisations will look into working more closely through their alumni communities, aiming to involve participants in key programmes and build a strong network of innovators and researchers. Efforts to strengthen collaboration in key areas such as gender equality, EIT’s women entrepreneurship initiatives, and leadership programs like EIT Supernovas and EIT Girls Go Circular. Successful joint activities, such as the EIT-COST Pre-Jumpstarter webinars, will continue to increase participation of COST beneficiaries and to support researchers to become successful entrepreneurs.
The decision to renew the MoU between EIT and COST highlights their shared commitment to progress EU innovation. By building on past achievements and exploring new areas of cooperation, the two organisations are well places to drive meaningful impact across Europe.